I'm gonna cut the heart
right out of this pumpkin.
Gonna be interesting.
BENNETT: Tonight,
the deliciously death-defying
battle for Halloween
supremacy continues...
My hands are shaking.
BENNETT: ...as each of the five
remaining teams
of pumpkin carvers
paired with cake
and sugar artists...
Trust my genius.
BENNETT:
...combine their skills to
create Halloween food artistry
that will shake you
to your very core.
Love it.
BENNETT: By night's end, one
more team moves to the graveyard
while the rest continue
to fight for $50,000.
[ Sugar shatters ]
-Oh, no.
-Watch it!
-Ah!
BENNETT: Get ready...
Aw, snap.
This is gonna be a competition.
..."Halloween Wars"
starts right now.
[ Bach's "Toccata and Fugue
in D Minor" plays ]
[ Laughs evilly ]
♪♪
Walking back in the kitchen
for our next challenge,
I'm feeling pretty good.
Last week, we were top three,
but Candied Cadavers
won the Small Scare
and the Spine Chiller...
That makes two in a row.
...so we really need
to step up our game.
Last week, we were in the bottom
because we weren't able
to execute the story
that we planned.
I'm not quite sure
what the ropes are.
The story is confusing.
We're really determined not to
let that happen again this week.
Welcome back, teams.
Tonight, there's going to be
two rounds of competition.
Whoever wins the first
Small Scare round
earns an extra assistant
going into the second round,
the Spine Chiller,
and at the end
of the second round,
one more team is gonna be
scared off.
Things are heating up.
Now it's time to kick some butt.
You know, we all think
we know Frankenstein.
He's tall, not much of
a conversationalist,
a bit green, but did you know
that he was also a romantic?
Yeah, I didn't think so.
You know, chicks may dig scars,
but not when they go all the way
around your head, okay?
[ Laughs ]
So when Frankie's looking
to impress his sweetheart,
he's got to do it
with a twisted treat
that Frankenstein can give
his bride in a challenge
we call "Frankenstein's Gift."
You have got just 45 minutes,
and your time starts...
now!
Go, go, go, go, go, go.
Quick, quick, quick, quick.
We won two in a row already.
We got to keep
this momentum going.
Frankenstein's gift.
Okay.
Has to be something
a bit unusual.
-Necklace.
Love it.
Can we do, like,
a really cutesy heart?
-What's wrong with you?
-He's dead.
It's got to be a coffin,
a gift box coffin, right?
Yeah, that's great.
The heart is too obvious.
Our concept is Frankie is gonna
give his wife both earrings
with ears attached in a coffin.
LENNY: All right, guys.
I got my pumpkin here.
KIMBERLY: Our pumpkin element
will be the ears.
The cake element is the coffin
filled with cake,
and then the door
of the coffin is gonna be
my cereal treat and chocolate.
That's awesome.
What are you doing over there?
-Are you making --
-Trying to put my gloves on.
Shelby has to make the chain,
the bolt, and the flowers
and these are all
delicate pieces.
SHELBY: This is a flower.
You just pull the petal out,
thin it,
and then you just roll it
and then kind of
pull the center out.
You could just breathe on it
and it'll break.
If I was the Bride
of Frankenstein,
I would be super happy
with this gift.
Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
You start on the pumpkin.
All right.
For our story, Frankenstein
and his bride
get a frankenpuppy
that's all pieces
of different animals
stitched together.
We're gonna carve the back
and then we'll put
on the front and hind legs.
CORINNA: Tom is going to work
on the body of the puppy.
Make sure you leave
yourself some time
to actually paint this.
-Yes.
I'm gonna model the puppy's
head out of cake,
but this has to
correspond to the body.
The hardest part of this
is gonna be
actually getting it together.
You're a rock star, Corinna,
you can do it.
I am kind of concerned about
the head and the body matching,
but this might work
in our favor.
It's a frankenpuppy after all.
-How big are those eyes?
-Inch and a half.
Joshua's concentrating on
the eyes for the puppy,
which he's making
out of isomalt.
He's also pulling sugar
to make a bow
that the puppy has
just smashed out of.
We're not gonna get all
these pieces painted in time.
Concentrate on that,
and we'll see what happens.
[ Thunder crashes ]
Guy, I think this gift
is gonna be perfect.
Beautiful.
CYNTHIA:
Our idea is Frankenstein's gift
will be his heart
with a gift bow.
I will be watching you guys
along the way
'cause I don't want to make
my sugar too big or too small.
Orly's creating the sugar gift
bow and Frankenstein's bolts.
There's only so much you can
do within 45 minutes.
CYNTHIA: The ventricles will be
cake and modeling chocolate.
I'm worried there won't be
a smooth transition
between this modeling
chocolate and the pumpkin.
I hope it'll hold.
-I hope it'll hold, too.
-What?
The most time consuming element
will be carving that pumpkin.
I'm worried about this pumpkin
looking like a heart.
Does that look
like a heart valve?
Yeah.
Arlen and I both need to nail
the shape of this heart
so that the judges know
what they're looking at.
We'll make it work.
All right.
That's what I like to hear.
Hey, teams, it's time to say
hello to your judges,
award-winning cake
artist Shinmin Li.
-Hey.
-Whoo!
And our resident
makeup heartthrob
and horror film director
Todd Tucker.
We love you, Todd.
And joining us, the voice
of the Crypt Keeper
from "Tales From the Crypt,"
John Kassir.
-Hello, creeps.
-Yeah!
I am super excited
'cause I grew up
watching "Tales From the Crypt."
[ Laughing evilly ]
[ Laughs ]
[ Crypt Keeper's voice ]
All right, creeps.
You only have 30 minutes left.
[ Laughing evilly ]
JEWEL: Oh, my God.
I cannot believe 15 minutes
has already gone by.
Don't remind me.
I'm still smoothing icing.
Our team is making
a sculpted pillow
with this necklace
draped over it,
and then we're gonna actually
have Frankenstein's hand.
Clive, how are you doing?
It's coming along a lot
slower than I thought.
That's not what
I wanted to hear.
Clive is carving this
Frankenstein hand
with all the scarring on it.
It won't look like Frankenstein
without those stitches.
I'm gonna get
some blingy detail.
Jules is gonna make
this vintage necklace
with eyeballs and teeth.
If I go too quick, I might
poke a hole in my pillow.
You will rock this out.
I'm gonna make this pillow,
and it's gonna be
carved out of cake
and covered in fondant.
Okay.
I'm gonna start painting.
Maybe I missed my calling
to be a jewelry maker.
ELIZABETH: Worry about that
after we win this competition.
I'm rolling out
the Frankenstein green.
Oh, I love that color,
Sabrina, it's beautiful.
Frankenstein is giving his heart
as a gift to his bride.
I'm gonna cut the heart
right out of this pumpkin.
But he's got to give it
a little juice of love,
so he hooks it up
to some electrodes.
[ Groans ]
Check it out, guys.
I go in with clay ribbon tools
and make sure that the heart
anatomy is just right.
That's so creepy.
Sabrina, how you doing?
SABRINA: I am just working
on his fingers.
Sabrina's gonna be
doing Frankenstein's hand
made out of rice cereal treats
and modeling chocolate.
Making it look dead.
You putting all the details in?
Cesar's gonna be
working on the electrodes.
He's gonna use pulled sugar
to make these electrodes
look like there's thick
copper wire wrapping around.
Guys, this heart's
coming out good.
The heart is
the centerpiece, man.
Make it look great.
LENNY: How's it going, Kim?
What better color
to make a gift
from Frankenstein
than in red fondant.
SHELBY: Hey, guys, let me know
when I can start putting
my pieces on.
I can't do anything else
until Len's done with his ears.
I'm trying, guys.
This has to be perfect.
I want to hear that he could've
used these as a movie prop.
Lenny has to get this done
or this piece won't work.
Time is of the essence.
-Okay.
-And they're in scale now.
-Same size?
-Same size.
Those look great.
[ Groaning ]
Which means you've only got
10 minutes left.
You guys, come on,
we can do this.
Our light for the beating
heart is in there.
We just need to put
the bubble sugar on top.
It's gonna look like
his heart is beating.
I'm a little worried we're not
gonna have enough time
to get details
the judges are looking for.
We can't mess this one up again.
We've got to win this puppy.
Puppy. [ Laughs ]
I'm almost done, guys.
I just need to put
the finishing touches on.
I'm coming over. Hot sugar.
We got some killer work
coming out.
ELIZABETH: Oh, I love it.
Looks like it's
all crystalized and blingy.
-How's the pumpkin going?
-It's getting there.
About done with the bolt.
CYNTHIA:
I'm working on the ventricles.
Arlen's busy
carving the pumpkin.
I hope you can work with it.
And then I look over at Orly,
and he has these massive bolts.
Aren't those too long?
They are never gonna
fit in our piece.
We can't put this
in the pumpkin.
Why didn't you tell me
so in the beginning?
We wants to shove them
into the pumpkin,
but pumpkin melts sugar.
He just wants to shove
sugar into the heart.
Into the pumpkin?
This is a disaster.
It's too late now. Sorry.
-About done with the bolt.
-Aren't those too long?
CYNTHIA: We are making
Frankenstein's heart.
These massive bolts, they are
never gonna fit in our piece.
We can't put this
in the pumpkin.
Why didn't you tell me
so in the beginning?
♪♪
Okay, guys.
I have to cut the bolt
'cause it's too long.
CYNTHIA: Luckily, Orly things
fast on his feet.
You are sticking
a skewer in it?
Yeah, I had to.
He cut the bolts
and attached them to a skewer
that we can push
through the pumpkin.
It's okay.
Let's get this, you guys.
We got to start
doing the assembly.
Okay, Lenny,
get your ears on
and then we can put
everything else on.
I'm finally done
doing the coffin.
Now, everyone else
can put their pieces on.
-Let me get the chain down.
-Okay.
It's gonna melt
if I don't get it down.
-Go ahead.
-Hurry, hurry. Stand it up.
KIMBERLY: We're scrambling to
get all these pieces together.
I'm gonna put
my flower in here.
This is a mad dash to get
this done in time.
Go, go.
Five minutes left, guys!
Get it done.
Putting the bow together
right now, guys.
-We got a lot left to do.
-Yeah.
Let's paint this fat puppy
'cause it's huge.
It's close to the wire
and this thing is
still not painted.
Can I get around you there?
So the three of us all stick in
and paint this pumpkin.
Finish the teeth, stitches.
I'm not sure if I'm gonna
have time for the collar.
There's so much to do.
The time just goes by so fast.
JEFF: Come one, monsters,
push, push, push.
Frankenstein is giving
his heart as a gift.
We've got to add the balls
on top of these electrodes,
and we still have to attach
the jumper cables.
We desperately have to get
this thing finished.
-Come on, come on, come on.
-All right. Come on, guys.
I'm coming over. Hot sugar.
Clyve, we really need to get
that one the board.
I'm painting as fast as I can.
-Don't move. Don't move.
-Okay.
We're good. Necklace is on.
BENNETT: One minute remains.
One minute, one minute.
Let's scramble.
-I don't know where it goes.
-Right there.
-My petal broke.
-The bow is done.
It's not perfect,
but it's done.
Guys, we got to go.
Get all the details
on there we can.
-10, 9, 8...
-Put it on. Put it on.
-Let's go.
-Give me the gold. Now, now.
-7, 6, 5...
-That's good. That's good.
-Come on, come on.
-4, 3, 2, 1...
Hands up.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my gosh. [ Laughs ]
-Oh.
-Fastest 45 minutes.
♪♪
Teams, the judges wanted
to see how a monster
makes a romantic gesture
with Frankenstein's gift.
Zesty Zombies,
present your present.
LENNY: Here, we have Frankie's
gift to his bride.
He ripped out his bolts,
fashioned a set of earrings
and put it
in a coffin gift box.
The coffin box is cereal treat,
cake and fondant.
Pulled sugars are the roses,
bolts, and chains,
and the pumpkin element
are the ears.
This design is very
simple but smart.
The sculptures, very cood.
The ears look really nice
The bolts look like real bolts.
-Job well done.
-Thank you.
The sugar work is refined
and very beautiful.
I love that you included
this translucency
into the texture of the roses.
-John, what do you think?
-You know, nothing sells
Halloween to me than a nice
casket to pop out of.
[ Laughs evilly ]
Ears to you.
[ Laughter ]
We are so confident.
We've just come off of a win.
We're going to show everyone
that we are the team to beat.
Candied Cadavers?
CYNTHIA:
Under Frankenstein's gray pallor
lies a heart of gold.
He gifted that heart to his
wife on their wedding night.
The bottom of the heart
is pumpkin.
The ventricles are made
with modeling chocolate.
The bolts are sugar
along with the bow.
All of us know
what a heart looks like,
and this is not
really recognizable.
It looks like a pile of rocks
on top of a red apple.
The only thing that I like here
is the pulled bow,
unfortunately.
I don't see a heart there,
and to be honest with you,
the flashing light that's
supposed to be his heartbeat,
completely distracting.
BENNETT: The master of horror,
what do you think?
I was thinking, "Gosh,
the ribbon just doesn't seem
to fit with the rest of it,"
but I get the idea that
Frankenstein would've
ripped it out of his heart
and he stuck it there,
and he would have
just put a bow on it,
so I like the concept.
Beastly Banshees.
CORINNA:
Frankenstein and his bride,
they're ready for the next
level in their relationship,
so he decides to
give her a Frankendog.
The head is made from
rice cereal treats
covered in modeling paste.
His eyes are isomalt.
The body is made from pumpkin,
and the bow is
from pulled sugar.
The head, it reminds of
the ventriloquist
version of a dog.
It actually has
a personality to it,
but it hasn't gruesomed on me.
The bow looks like maybe
it was a puppy accident.
I just wish you had more time.
The dog's head,
eyes are gorgeous.
To me, that is really the only
part that looks complete.
In the pumpkin sculpture,
if you were to do this again,
I would try to get
some time in there
to do some shadows
and highlights.
Grave Expectations.
Frankenstein's love
is centuries old,
so he gave his bride a necklace
and his hand to hold.
The pumpkin element
is Frankenstein's hand.
Our cake element is
our pillow.
The sugar is the tarantula
necklace with eyeballs
and pulled sugar teeth.
This pillow is perfection.
The shading of the stitching
and the tufted details
in the cushion,
really spectacular.
What I do think you need
here is elevation.
If you had done that
with this pillow,
then I think it would definitely
look a lot more dynamic.
This piece feels
a little disjointed.
Three separate elements, if they
had just been somehow touching,
it would've come
together as one piece.
I love the concept.
[ Crypt Keeper voice ]
This is a handsome piece.
BENNETT: Monster of Mayhem.
JEFF: Frankenstein's gift to his
bride is his own heart,
so he rips his heart
out of his chest,
hooks it up to a jumper cable
and gives it a good shock.
The heart is made of pumpkin.
Frankenstein's hand is made
from rice cereal treats
and modeling chocolate,
and the sugar is the electrodes.
Well, I really like
the color scheme.
My favorite part is the hand.
It has such great tension.
Right now, it's very,
very hidden.
I agree.
If you turned it sideways
so that I can see
the heart and the hand,
I would completely see
all the aspects of this
that I want to see.
I can almost see
the electrodes coming to life
and finding their way
to the heart.
This is a shocking
piece, indeed.
[ Laughter ]
The judges are now gonna
piece together their thoughts
and come up with a decision.
We'll meet you back here
in just a few minutes.
KIMBERLY: We pulled together,
and everyone
did their jobs to perfection.
We got this locked down.
ELIZABETH: Todd feels our piece
is a little disjointed
but loves our attention
to detail.
I just hope it's enough
to win this challenge.
♪♪
Teams, for tonight's
Small Scare,
we challenged you to imagine
the most horrifically
romantic gift
Frankenstein would
give to his bride.
You gave us five
amazing creations,
but in the end, today's
decision comes down to story,
and there was one gift that told
it with spooktacular simplicity.
Congratulations...
Zesty Zombies.
KIMBERLY:
It feels absolutely amazing.
Now we're amped up.
We're just going to keep going
until we get to that $50,000.
Now, we all know
that zombies have been
the reigning heavy weight
champions of horror,
but now there's a new
challenger in town --
the clowns.
[ Shudders ] I hate clowns.
We want you to combine
your skills in pumpkin,
candy, and cake to show us who
would win in a horrific battle
between zombies versus clowns.
In addition to that,
the judges also want you
to incorporate a sweet treat
into your display
that only a zombie
or a clown could love.
Each of you will be given
one assistant,
and Zesty Zombies,
you get double the help
with the extra assistant
you earned in the Small Scare.
You have got just
five hours starting...
now.
God, again, top three,
but we're not the top?
Clowns versus zombies.
How can we pit them
against each other?
What if the clowns had a cage?
What if they're brothers
in like a traveling circus.
I think we should go clowns
killing the zombie.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Our idea is a clown on stage.
He's lured his zombie foe in,
and the clown is going to shoot
the zombie out of a cannon.
That's mine.
Let's see what we can do
with this.
I'm making a clown shoe
out of butternut squash.
Clyve has started working on
these butternut squash shoes
for me.
Guys, I'm pouring the wheel.
ELIZABETH:
Jewel's responsible for this
unicycle out of cast sugar.
Come on, sugar baby.
Be good to your sugar mama.
She's also going to make balloon
animals out of blown sugar.
Well, we got one
balloon animal.
The clown head
is coming on nicely.
Oh, yay!
The hardest thing to pull off
in this challenge
is gonna be the clown
because it's so big,
and that structure, that's gonna
take a lot of time.
-Hi.
-Hey.
-Are you our assistant?
-All righty.
Winning the Small Scare,
you get an extra helper,
and it's great to have
an extra pair of hands.
I have to get the shape
of this clown together.
For our designs,
were gonna do a clown
bashing a zombie
into the ground.
I am going to do the clown
out of cake,
rice cereal treat,
and modeling chocolate.
So I'm gonna take these
leaves and place them
around his wrist,
and then I'm gonna also
place them around his collar.
For the head, I wanted to get
this scary-looking man
with really icky hair
hanging down.
SHELBY:
So I'm making the dead roses.
Shelby makes these beautiful,
dark sugar flowers.
Shelby's got to make the eyes
for the zombie and the clown.
SHELBY:
This is like wafer paper.
I'm using it to cover
the backboard.
KIMBERLY: And Shelby is also
gonna do the cemetery scene,
and it's gonna be made
out of edible paint, fondant,
and some modeling
chocolate for texture.
We got to move like
we got purpose here.
The zombie head, arms, and body
are gonna be made
out of pumpkin.
Hey, Lenny, how it's going
with that pumpkin?
Too slow for me.
So here's zombie.
I'm going to start putting some
sagging green flesh on him.
We have decided to do
a traveling circus brother duo.
Unfortunately, one of them gets
infected with the zombie virus.
Trust my genius, guys.
Okay, okay, okay.
Okay. Sorry, sorry.
-Trust my genius.
-All right.
For the backdrop, we paint
this circus tent
and a road that
the clown car is on.
We also have a tree
with chocolate tree bark.
I'm gonna put
some pants on him.
Everybody's better with pants.
The zombie is going to be
made of rice cereal treats,
modeling chocolate,
with aged fondant clothing.
Curl it down.
That's perfect
for a front of a car.
Kind of a clowny car, right?
For our pumpkin element,
we're going to have
a clown car
with pumpkin wheels.
It's not just one pumpkin.
It's not two pumpkins.
It's seven pumpkins
to create this pumpkin car.
I'm making the windshield,
guys.
Orly's going to do
a poured sugar windshield
for our pumpkin car.
I'll make sure that these
flowers are nice and shiny.
CYNTHIA: He is also creating
a sugar flower for the zombie
to wear on his lapel.
Orly, can you pull
a sugar shoelace?
Sugar shoelace,
you kidding me?
I am just working on the jester.
Our idea is that when
the zombie apocalypse happens,
that castle jester
smashes the other zombies
with his mallet.
I love carving zombie heads,
so I'm pretty much
in my element right now.
The zombie king is going
to be made of pumpkin
smashed into a bunch
of different parts.
So I'm gonna be doing
parts of his face
and parts of his bones.
-Check out the zombie head.
-Nice.
Sabrina's doing the jester
made of cake,
fondant, and modeling chocolate.
-Sabrina, check this gold.
-Pretty.
JEFF:
We really want to sell this
as an elegant king's chamber.
Cesar's gonna be doing
all of the sugar work
for this art piece,
and it's gonna be poured sugar
and molded sugar
with some flowers on top.
CESAR: Beautiful. Work with me.
Love it.
I like his belly.
He's a fat little clown.
The idea for our story is
the circus set up camp
right next to a graveyard
where the zombies are living.
The zombies aren't
happy about this,
so they've stolen
one of the clown cars
and are chasing
them out of town.
This is a work out.
The whole belly of the clown
is all chocolate cake
with buttercream
and modeling chocolate.
Next, I start clothing my clown
with fondant and then the head.
I want to wow these
judges this time.
How are you on
your schedule, Tom?
I'm on time, surprisingly.
Tom is gonna take
on the car and the zombie.
Tom picks out two pumpkins that
are the right size for the car.
He also needs some pieces
that will make the door,
and we actually have
a motorized turnkey
that's spinning around
on the toy car.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I'm gonna go ahead
and start the wheels.
CORINNA: Josh was going to make
the hubcaps of the car.
These are layered
bits of isomalts.
I've got the wheels completed.
They're ready to put on.
CORINNA: And we're going to cut
out a big circle in the backdrop
and put an isomalt moon
that's going to be backlit.
This is gonna be beautiful.
-Let me not torch my face off.
-Or mine.
Am I a scary clown or what?
[ Chomping sounds ]
Look, I can eat people.
Ah! Ah! Oh, my!
Four hours!
Four hours left!
Oh, my god.
Four hours left.
What's wrong with him?
I think he had a children's
birthday to go to.
Todd!
CESAR: How you doing, Jeff?
I'm just carving up chunks
of hammered zombie.
This is your windshield,
whenever you're ready.
All right.
This is the watermelon
zombie head. I'm --
I've never seen someone
carve a watermelon before,
so I'm super excited
to see how you do it.
Clyve's going to make this
zombie head out of watermelon,
and with the watermelon,
you actually have the red that
grins through the deeper you go,
so it already kind
of looks gory.
I've got to get
those cupcakes out.
Jewel's also are doing
our tasting element,
a death by chocolate cake with
this chocolate mousse on top
with this Merlot caramel drizzle
with a chocolate zombie hand
coming out of the top
of the cupcake.
-How you feeling, Cynthia?
-Let's do this.
For the zombie head,
we poured white chocolate
into a skull mold,
let it set and then
some modeling chocolate
to fill in the fine details.
The clown is silly
and a troublemaker,
and the zombie is just forlorn.
I never made hair out of candy.
For the sugar hair,
Orly starts off
with a puck of isomalt,
and he starts pulling it.
And by pulling it,
he's going to create
this really nice and shiny hair
for both the clown
and the zombie.
I need those heads.
How about that one?
-No, we don't want that.
-Is it ready yet?
We got to give them put on
before you add the hair,
I think.
-I know.
It smells good
over there, Joshua.
Hey, thanks.
What are you doing, anyway?
Joshua's making something
kind of gross.
Is he moving?
Cluster, no,
they're freeze dried.
-Are you sure?
-As far as I know.
Caramel corn,
perfect for the circus
with a zombie element
of chocolate covered crickets.
Oh, that's disgusting.
So I'm going to make little
bitty cricket clusters.
I think this tasting element
is gonna stand out
from the rest.
Whether the judges will actually
eat it or not, I don't know.
-Eat one.
-Not yet.
-I want chocolate on it.
-Yeah.
Hopefully, it tastes
as good as it looks.
No two zombies are the same.
KIMBERLY: So Shelby's making
mold of cut up faces and zombies
to add to the background.
-Kim, that looks amazing.
-Thanks.
And I'm taking charge
of the clown from head to toe,
so I have to cover
her body in fondant,
and then I'm gonna
work on the head.
Hey, Lenny, how's it going
with that pumpkin?
The pumpkin is shredding,
so it's disintegrating
in front of my face.
Lenny's having problems
with the zombie pumpkin head.
You see this?
See how it just shreds?
I keep cutting it away
to get away from the shred,
and then I have no meat.
Lenny's trying to cut
these pumpkin pieces up
to make something happen,
and he can't get this
pumpkin to work at all,
and I don't have time to do it,
so what are we gonna do?
The head is garbage.
That's it.
Aw, [bleep].
Lenny's doing a zombie
on a pumpkin,
but he can't get this
pumpkin to work at all.
That's it.
Mnh-mnh. We don't quit.
That's not what we do.
Feel like I'm letting
everybody down.
No, you're not.
It doesn't have to be
a complete body.
As long as we have pumpkin
on there, we're good.
You do this the best
that you can,
and then you get
another medium,
and you show your
sculpting skills.
Lenny, you're going to
sculpt us a zombie
out of modeling chocolate.
You're a sculptor.
You can do this.
You're going to knock
that zombie out.
It's gonna be interesting.
Do you guys think
you'll be done in time
to, like, lend me a hand?
I was actually gonna ask
the same of you.
No.
The idea for our story is that
the zombies have stolen
one of the clown cars and are
chasing them out of town.
This is gonna be
incredibly tight.
I think maybe we've bitten off
more than we can chew again.
How far behind do you
think we are?
Biggest thing I need to do
is finish carving the zombie,
and then I got to paint it,
but we really need
to get things on there.
Tom has to build up and block
the entire zombie structure.
Then we got to get the head
and arm on there.
I don't know if we're gonna
have time to get all this done.
BENNETT: One hour left!
-Whoa, we only got one hour.
-Oh, my gosh.
-One hour, guys.
Okay.
We got to hustle, guys.
I'm going to make the hair
out of corn silk,
so he'll have really icky,
long, nasty hair.
For the clown, I don't want
him to be a happy clown.
I want him to be a clown
that kids are scared
to have come to
their birthday parties.
One thing that's really cool
about marzipan people don't know
about is that
it has rosewater in it.
For our tasting element,
Shelby's making
a marzipan zombie head.
I'm adding coconut,
and then I'm gonna put
an almost inside
of each zombie head.
And it will be dipped
in dark chocolate.
It is going to be delicious.
Kim, is there anything you can
do color-wise to this guy?
Yeah, I think he looks great.
Lenny's zombie face
looks amazing,
and I think it looks so good
that the judges won't ding us
for not having so much
pumpkin on the display.
LENNY: Worst thing I've ever
made in my life.
So you want me to stop here,
shave down,
spackle on the sides and the...
Yeah, or even if you
just keep shoving it in.
Our idea is to have
a clown shoot
the zombie out of a cannon.
JEWEL:
This can't happen. This cannon.
We're not sure if we're gonna
get this cannon done in time.
I mean, it's huge.
What do you want to do?
I want to take this off
and have the absolute
most detailed clown.
Okay.
Carve the watermelon,
go in the bucket.
If we change our story,
it's better than having half
a freaking cannon on a board.
-Agreed.
Jewel has this idea
of scrapping the cannon.
We think that we can really
focus on making a better piece
instead of just
trying to rush it.
JEWEL: If I can get this
to properly stand up,
I might be able to make it
like an upside down unicycle.
I'm going to get his hair done,
and then I'm gonna quickly
do one little small...
psh in the middle
to make him look
kind of creepy.
I want this one to be
as creepy as possible.
The detail needs to be
all the creases
to really get that
creepy expression.
Clive, how's it going?
It's going good except
for this watermelon's
a little on the ripe side.
I'll be about 10 more minutes.
You realize that needs to be
done in five minutes?
What?
I make red velvet all the time
down in the South, Sabrina.
This is what we do.
Cesar's tasting element is
a red velvet cream puff
with cream cheese
Bavarian cream
and ganache with
a crackle of streusel on top.
Oh, that's really good, Cesar.
Good job.
Thanks.
And he's gonna make it all in
the shape of a red clown nose,
and that's gonna represent
all of the other clown zombies
that this jester smashed.
Hey, guys, I'm over here
painting with gel paint.
I was very really good,
in my happy place,
just doing a nice
landscape painting,
but then I realized I was
actually on "Halloween Wars,"
and the stress came right back.
Everybody else has a full riser
and ours is completely empty.
They don't even have
anything on their display
except for the backdrop.
I feel like there needs to be
more urgency here.
Yeah.
When can we start
putting stuff on the board?
Any time you'd like.
They told me my chocolate
the last time was very thick.
I'll make sure that this one
is not gonna be that thick.
Okay.
For our tasting element,
Orly is making
the cheesecake mousse
placed into tempered chocolate
cups shaped by balloons
with passion fruit curd,
zombie ash made
from dried pineapple,
coconut, and a little bit
of maltodextrin.
This thing is hard.
Solid block of chocolate.
How could I even stick this on?
CYNTHIA: Orly then comes in
with the hair
for both the clown
and the zombie,
and it looks like
super shiny clown hair.
I hope this will fit.
It's the best I can do.
-Nose.
-Not bad for last minute.
-Yeah.
-We have to get it going.
Get your flowers on.
Get your flowers on the set.
-Okay.
-Get your flowers on the set.
But if you guys break these
by putting that on there,
I will kill you.
Lenny is irritated because
his pumpkin stuff didn't work,
and we're rushing to get
all this stuff on last minute.
We have nothing here now.
I don't care.
-We have --
-They're going in the front.
Shelby, we got to
fill this space.
We have to fill this space.
Put them right here.
[ Bleep ]
Shelby's trying
to put her flowers on, and...
SHELBY: [ Voice breaking ]
That one's just falling apart.
...some of them are breaking
because we're moving them
around,
and I'm thinking, "Just put
the flowers on the display."
I don't care where they go.
Shelby, what's wrong?
She's upset because the flowers
are not in the front.
Because they're breaking.
That's why.
I understand that, Shelby.
So Shelby completely
stops working.
We only have 30 minutes left.
We don't have time
for arguing, bickering.
This is like the worst time
for all of this to happen.
-[ Snifflles ]
-Oh, my god.
KIMBERLY:
Shelby, what's wrong?
I'm more upset about my work
not looking its best,
and then when I start
crying, I can't stop.
It's so stupid.
This is like the worst time
for all of this to happen.
Shelby completely stops working.
Shelby, we need to pull
this together. We need you.
We need to come
together as a team.
We're running out of time.
We don't have time for arguing,
bickering and all that stuff.
Pull it together
and get it done.
Can't put the crown
until the jester is on.
We're scrambling at the end.
We got to get everything
on this riser,
and I'm not sure
it's gonna happen in time.
-You got him?
-Got him.
Coming backwards.
Good job, everybody.
Beautiful job, let's go.
We got 10 minutes.
The seat is sagging.
I'm not really in a great mood
right now.
Jewel was making this incredible
unicycle out of cast sugar.
Okay, we need to get the ruffle
finished and...
What do we need -- it works
in the background.
That's what I'm gonna do.
I've got clouds. Excuse me.
I need to show the judges that
we can have a finished piece,
so I just frantically
start airbrushing
just to get it completed.
Ah, I'm airbrushing like
I've never airbrushed before.
I mean, you're not the only one
looking at a full moon.
[ Laughs ] I'm sorry.
I forgot to make a tongue
for the clown.
I just want to shove a quick
one into his mouth there.
TOM: I got to get
the tasting element on.
That has to go on now, like,
I'll throw those teeth in.
-Just go ahead.
-This clown is almost down.
Go ahead and put them on,
but be gentle.
You have one minute left.
That's it.
One minute. Okay, what do
we need? What do we need?
Watch the crown.
Watch that crown.
All right. Hurry, guys.
We got to get the finishing
details on there.
Foot, foot, foot.
[Bleep]
-I didn't touch it.
-Oh.
-Oh, no.
-Sorry. I'm so sorry.
-It's fine. It's fine.
Just get all the pieces.
Behind, behind. Sorry.
I've ruined Jewel's piece.
How the heck did that break?
I didn't even touch it.
This is disaster.
-10...
-I'm gonna have a heart attack.
9, 8...
It's good. It's good.
It's good. Let's go.
-7, 6...
-It's coming out right now.
5, 4...
You can't blowtorch
the modeling chocolate.
3, 2, 1!
Hands off your displays.
Oh, man.
[ Applause ]
♪♪
Teams, in this Spine Chiller,
the judges wanted to see
your vicious vision
of clowns versus zombies.
Candied Cadavers, let's talk
about your display.
Zombies versus clowns.
We decided to make them
traveling circus brothers,
Bimbam and Billy Bob Bobo.
Billy Bob loses body parts,
and he makes him chase
after it
in his little clown car,
which is our pumpkin element.
Bimbam and Billy Bob is made
from rice cereal treats,
modeling chocolate,
and fondant clothing,
sugar hair, a sugar nose,
a sugar ruffle collar.
What I made here for you guys
is made of chocolate cup,
cream cheese mousse
and next to it
is zombie ash made
of coconut, pineapple.
That dessert is like right
out of a three-star
Michelin restaurant.
The cheesecake mousse
has real body.
It kind of like swirls
on the tongue.
The two characters
are really dynamic.
The pulled sugar hair
on the clown really works.
However, on the zombie,
I think it just looks too fresh.
The most impressive thing to me
is the clothing just
looks like textiles,
the draping of the material
and the way that you used it.
The car is very cool,
and the way that you actually
have the clown's knees,
it makes it feel
like a clown car.
Candied Cadavers,
thank you very much.
Monster of Mayhem.
A jester clown who is
in a castle
when a zombie
apocalypse happened.
He took his revenge
with his giant mallet,
crushing all of
the zombie jesters.
The clown jester is made out
of rice cereal treats,
modeling chocolate,
and fondant.
Our sugar pieces are the crown,
the art piece.
Pumpkin elements are the zombie
head and the zombie pieces.
So for our tasting element,
I made a red velvet cream puff,
filled it with a cream
cheese Bavarian
with a little
chocolate ganache.
I didn't even feel like it
needed the ganache.
The texture of the light
Bavarian cream was so pleasing
that I didn't want
that heavier center.
Sabrina, you were working on
this character the entire time.
You know what?
It was worth it.
That is the star of this piece.
The flowers are
really beautiful,
but it doesn't fit in
with the eerie display here.
You've brought it.
That character is fantastic.
Obviously, the star
of this is the jester.
It comes to life and to death
at the same time.
Great job, guys.
Thank you very much.
Zesty Zombies.
SHELBY: Our killer clown
is on a rampage.
Behind him, he has all
the zombie heads
that he's been collecting.
The clown is made out of cake.
The eyes are sugar.
The zombie is modeling
chocolate, pulled sugar roses,
and then we have
a pumpkin root.
So I made zombie heads.
Marzipan with coconut
with a almond center.
TUCKER:
The clown is horrifying.
The face on that clown,
the eyes on that clown,
the teeth on that clown,
that culture is dynamite,
but you're spending so much time
making that clown face.
If you had just taken
both those characters
and just shifted them out,
I still would've got
what they were doing,
but I could've seen them
and all the beautiful work
that you guys did.
With the tasting element,
the almond on the inside
was raw,
and I think that if you had
roasted that almond,
it would've just had
a little bit more depth to it.
The roses are really beautiful,
and the sheen really
brings them to life.
Thank you.
This is a tableau that I see
in a comic book coming to life.
This clown is phenomenal from
the face on through the body.
Zesty Zombies,
congrats, great work.
Beastly Banshees, you're up.
Our story is,
circus has come to town,
so zombies steal a clown car
and chase them out of town.
The clown, he's got
a full cake belly,
a rice cereal treats head.
He is holding
an isomalt balloon.
The car is actually made
completely in pumpkin
and same with
the zombie itself.
The moon is also
isomalt and backlit.
The tasting element,
we did a caramel corn
with chocolate coated nuts
and freeze dried crickets
tossed in chocolate.
-Actual crickets?
-[ Laughs ]
They're nice and crunchy.
The caramel popcorn was good.
The cricket, not so much.
It kind of tasted like rocks
mixed with river lake.
It was kind of gross.
I like the car.
The car and there's a lot of
personality coming out of that.
The clown and the zombie,
I feel like the level
of the finish on these
is a little bit amateur.
That moon is mesmerizing,
and the fact that you placed
the lights behind it
just really draws my eyes to it.
These characters remind me
of these monster stickers
I had as a kid that we all used
to stick on our notebook.
As a result, I kind of like this
in its simplicity.
Beastly Banshees,
thank you very much.
CORINNA:
I'm a little nervous.
As much fun as it was watching
the judges eat crickets,
maybe it was a step too far.
Grave Expectations.
For our piece, we decided
to do clowns versus zombies
with the clown being the winner.
The clown is cake
covered in fondant.
The clown's nose is
blown sugar.
The zombie head
is out of a watermelon.
Today, we have a death
by chocolate zombie cupcake,
dark chocolate with a light
cocoa mousse
and a Merlot caramel finish.
Jewel, girl, you can bake.
That was a really moist
chocolate cake,
but you know what?
Elizabeth, you are a star.
This is the best clown
I've seen on "Halloween Wars,"
and we've seen
many creepy clowns.
The paint job, the sculpting,
the eyes, the makeup is
your classic clown makeup.
Now, here is the problem.
If you had taken your clown
and put him dead center,
the balance of this whole piece
would've worked beautifully.
You have a giant void there,
which my eye is going to even
though that clown
is as amazing as it is.
I just know I'm going home.
I just don't think our piece
is impressive enough.
♪♪
Teams, we'll meet back here
in just a few minutes.
Right now, we're feeling
really good.
They absolutely loved the clown.
They loved the overall
theme of everything.
We think we could
really win this.
The judges said that the clown
and the zombie
was elementary or juvenile.
I'm wondering if we might be
the one to go home.
Five amazing teams
with five awesome displays.
This is gonna be tough.
Let's talk about
Monsters of Mayhem.
That jester was to die for.
Now, Cesar could've brought it
a little bit more.
What he did here
is very sugar sculpture 101.
If he had created something
that would fit in
with a castle scene --
-Right.
...I think it would've be
a lot more appropriate.
Torch, sconce or something.
-You know?
-Mm-hmm. I agree, yep.
I really liked Cesar's treat.
When I first picked it up,
it felt like a little ball
of clay or something.
But when you bit into it,
it had great dimension.
I love the lightness
of the Bavarian cream.
Let's talk about
Zesty Zombies.
There's really
so much detail here.
Lenny did a great job on that
zombie coming out of the ground,
but the position is turned,
it's just kind of wasted time
if you're gonna spend that
much time on a great sculpture.
I love those pulled flowers,
the luminous finish on there.
But you know what?
I am just not a fan of marzipan.
It tastes like
almond soap to me.
I do like marzipan.
I thought it was well done.
I could do it
without the chocolate.
I think the extra sweetness
on it overdid it.
Now let's talk about
Candied Cadavers.
TUCKER: I do love the idea that
the clown is stealing his arm.
It identify definitely clowns
versus zombies here.
The car is so well done.
If you look closely at
the faces, they're so well done.
The beautiful spun sugar hair
for the clown worked so well.
Right.
But you take the same spun sugar
for the zombie, not so well.
And then we have
the Beastly Banshees.
I appreciate the fact that Tom
did both the zombie
and the car in pumpkin.
I have to say,
that car was very cool.
I love that that had
so much expression,
and the car was alive,
which is a really unique idea.
Overall, the execution was just
a little bit more primitive.
If the car is the best thing,
then you kind of missed
the point.
Shinmin, you should've
seen your face
when you had to eat a cricket.
-What was that like?
-It was pretty nasty.
I mean, I was staring at wings.
The crickets in the food
was probably the scariest
part of the display,
but I will say the caramel
popcorn was all right.
-Less insects, more popcorn.
-[ Chuckles ]
Now let's talk about
Grave Expectations.
-Oh, boy.
-[ Sighs ]
They struggled here, but that
clown is the most beautiful,
most polished,
most scary, creepy clown
I've seen here on
"Halloween Wars."
TUCKER: But she can't carry
the weight of the entire team.
KASSIR: And it just doesn't
finish telling the story.
I didn't even really know
what the story was.
I liked the watermelon
tiki zombie.
That's really beautiful.
Cupcakes were really good.
She glazed it with this
gorgeous Merlot reduction --
Yeah, that was good.
...which really added
depth to it.
This is gonna be a tough one.
Do we know who's going home?
-Yeah, I think so.
-Let's bring back the teams.
♪♪
Teams,
it's the eternal question,
Which one is scarier,
clowns or zombies?
After tonight's Spine Chiller,
the answer is pretty clear --
they're both scary,
really, really scary.
Tonight, two teams
stood out to the judges
for their seamless
designs and clear story.
Monster of Mayhem
and Zesty Zombies,
so which team wins?
♪♪
Zesty Zombies.
Everything single detail
of your display sold the story.
That earned you the win.
Great job.
We won the Small Scare
and the Spine Chiller,
and we're feeling
unstoppable right now.
Unfortunately, there were two
other teams who struggled to,
well, just fill their displays,
Beastly Banshees
and Grave Expectations.
Crikey, we didn't get done
everything we were meant to.
I just feel so disappointed.
I am terrified right now.
Grave Expectations,
clowns might be terrifying,
but tonight,
yours saved you.
I'm really sorry,
Beastly Banshees.
You're done in this
Halloween war.
Now that I'm going home,
I'm okay with it.
I've made my mark.
I'm one of the first
international competitors
on this show.
That's something to be proud of.
Congratulations, teams.
Keep going and good luck.
We'll see you next time.
Going into the next
Halloween war,
we're gonna make sure that
our piece is perfectly centered,
and it's exactly where
the judges want it to be.
♪♪